.TH "METALINK_FILE_T" "3" "10/25/2008" "libmetalink 0.0.3" "libmetalink Manual"
.SH "NAME"
metalink_file_t \- The structure that holds information of a single file.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <metalink/metalink_types.h>

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBmetalink_file_t\fP is a structure that holds information of a single file.
It contains array of URLs(\fBmetalink_resource_t\fP(3)), checksums and metadata for a file.

.SH "STRUCTURE MEMBERS"
char *name;
.br
long long int size;
.br
char *version;
.br
char *language;
.br
char *os;
.br
metalink_resource_t **resources;
.br
int maxconnections;
.br
metalink_checksum_t **checksums;
.br
metalink_chunk_checksum_t *chunk_checksum;

.SS name
Null terminated file name of the resource which corresponds to name element in Metalink XML file.

.SS size
Length of the resource in bytes.

.SS version
Null terminated version string which corresponds to version element in Metalink XML file.

.SS language
Null terminated language string which corresponds to language element in Metalink XML file.

.SS os
Null terminated os string which corresponds to os element in Metalink XML file.

.SS resources
Null terminated array of pointer of \fBmetalink_resource_t\fP(3) structure.
This corresponds to resources element in Metalink XML file.
Each \fBmetalink_resource_t\fP(3) structure corresponds to url element in
Metalink XML file.

.SS maxconnections
This is a value of maxconnections attribute of file element.
This value is usually used for upper limit of concurrent connections for the
resource.

.SS checksums
Null terminated array of pointer of \fBmetalink_checksum_t\fP(3) structure.
This field is an array because in Metalink specification,
verification element can contain multiple hash elements.
Each \fBmetalink_checksum_t\fP(3) structure corresponds to hash element in
Metalink XML file.

.SS chunk_checksum
The chunk checksum(aka piece hash) for the resource. This corresponds to
pieces element under verification element in Metalink XML file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR metalink_checksum_t (3),
.BR metalink_chunk_checksum_t (3),
.BR metalink_resource_t (3),
.BR metalink_parse_file (3)
